(upbeat music)
All right in this video,
we're gonna work on our success,
error and loading states.
And in order to test our loading state,
let's go into our,
place order.
Place order .js and let's just make this function
the handler just take like a couple more seconds
and sort of the best way to do that
is I have a little package called wait,
and it allows you to wait a certain amount of seconds,
but we can just code it right here.
So we'll just make a function that is async,
and I'll call it wait
that takes in a number of milliseconds
and that returns a promise.
And from that promise,
we get a resolve and a reject
and after however many milliseconds are passed in,
we will resolve it.
So I'll say set timeout,
and we will resolve it after however many milliseconds.
And let's default that to zero milliseconds.
And I believe that's all we need.
Now in here was simply just await.
Actually, this doesn't need to be in a sync function,
just await. Wait.
And, let's wait for 5,000.
Let's wait for five seconds to see if that works.
Now, when I go ahead and add something and submit it
still says immediately go eat
and it's not going to our loading state.
So we'll go back to our user pizza and take a look.
Here! That's because when someone submits the order,
we are successfully setting the message to go eat.
So let's comment that out.
And when someone submits an order,
we set the loading to true.
And then when it is successfully done,
then we, right here.
This is the success, then we turn the loading off.
So let's try that.
One, two, three, four, five,
and then oops!
You are missing the email field. Okay, cool.
So we just did see right there that it's working.
Now, if I hit it again, am I still able to type in here?
Yeah. One, thing I like to do is go to
our order .js and let's disable all of those fields while,
while it's in place.
So the one kind of cool thing about a field set
is you can disable an entire field set.
So we take a look at our very first field set.
Again there's we can give it a disabled,
okay a disabled of true.
And you see I can't type into there.
I believe actually you just have to give it
a disabled attribute.
Yeah. If it's simply there, then it will disable it.
So what we can do is we can say disabled is equal to loading
and now I can type in here, but when I submit it,
see how it disables itself?
And then after five seconds,
it should allow me to type it in.
There we go. Beautiful!
So let's take that disabled loading attribute
and put it on all of our field sets.
So there's that one.
There's that one.
That one.
And that one, let's give it a shot.
Type in here.
Order ahead.
Well, that's not a valid email.
I'm just gonna take it out entirely.
There we go.
Look, I can't click on these buttons.
Can't click on anything while it is placing the order,
so that's good. Okay.
Next is our errors are working just fine now.
That's good because I guess our problem before
was that we were setting a success message.
Then let's go ahead and actually fill out everything.
Order ahead. It's gonna take five seconds
and then we should see a success message show up.
Maybe five seconds was too long.
There we go. Ah!
It didn't work.
Unexpected character at line one in column one
of the JSON data.
Okay.
So what?
Let's first just see if we actually
got an email about our pizza.
Yeah, so our pizza email came in, so I bet it's something
to do with the success message that we're sending back.
So, body. Oops.
Looks fine.
So now my next question is if we go to network,
let's try it again.
Let's take that five seconds off, okay.
'Cause we don't need that anymore.
I'll leave that wait function in there
just in case you wanna grab it for yourself.
So let's go ahead and run it.
Wesbos@gmail, add.
Okay. So I'm going to clear this out.
I'm gonna add on a filter for
I just want to see all, yeah,
then go ahead and click order ahead.
So there's our XHR request.
And success! Oh.
Why did it break before?
(laughs)
Let's try it one more time.
May be one of those things where we just ignore it
and it will always work from here on out.
And go ahead and order.
It works.
Is it because we didn't have any pizzas in that order?
Is that why?
Oh, okay. You know what?
That's fine, but we should fix that
in that the fact that you shouldn't be able to order,
submit an order with nothing in it.
Watch. Now we should have an empty order here.
Huh, zero dollars!
Right, you shouldn't be able to submit as zero dollars.
So let's go to our order here.
So field of required fields, checking that the name,
email and order fields are okay.
So in this case,
the order field was submitted but it was empty.
So what we'll do is make, I'll do it here.
It will say, make sure they actually
have items in that order.
And this should always be done server-side, this validation.
You could do it client side as well,
but at the end of the day, when you're doing an API,
your validation should happen
before it goes into some database.
So what we'll do here is we'll say,
get rid of these two things,
we'll say if the body.order,
if there's no body order .length then,
why would you order nothing?
Uh oh, something broke there.
Curly bracket.
Man, I don't like that rule!
If I delete this and save it?
Oh, I deleted it before.
Yeah. What the heck?
Don't accidentally delete my code.
I don't like that rule I'm gonna turn that off.
I don't know what that rule is.
That just started happening to me the other day.
Okay. Let's try it.
So go to order ahead, let's try to order nothing.
Error. Why would you order nothing?
Okay. That's good.
So we've got our errors, we've got our loading
and we have our success message.
Everything is working.
Good good good.
Let's move on to the next video.